Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to show you a 1996 science
fiction action film called Independence Day.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take careIn New Mexico, the
Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence Institute
detects a pulsing signal over their radar
on the second of July.
The one in charge informs their chief, and
they continue to investigate the source of
the movement.
They guess that it's a radio signal from another
world, but it seems impossible.
They carry on with finding the origin, and
they find out that it's coming from the moon.
Radar receptions are impaired, but the government
manages to trace the problem.
A flying object which is 550 kilometres in
diameter enters orbit around Earth.
In the White House, the Secretary of Defense
calls President Thomas Whitmore a visit to
alarm him about the situation.
A giant alien mothership is getting closer
to the Earth's atmosphere as time passes by.
David Levinson, an MIT-trained satellite technician,
works at a cable company in New York City.
During that day, their office becomes extremely
busy as satellites are malfunctioning.
David tries to understand the situation, but
he finds it difficult to believe that big
objects could approach Earth.
The mothership deploys several dozen saucer-shaped
spacecraft, each about 24 kilometres across.
The smaller spacecraft, also known as destroyers,
take positions over many of Earth's major
cities, including New York, Washington, D.C.,
Los Angeles, and Moscow.Major generals meet
with the President to discuss how they can
address the situation; another soldier walks
in and informs them that the ship is multiplying
and is about to enter the Earth's atmosphere
in the next minutes.
In a faraway desert in Iraq, people sight
an enormous swarm of clouds covering the massive
spacecraft; marine operators spot this and
inform the U.S. government.
Television channels worldwide are malfunctioning,
and news channels can hardly show updates
on the situation.
As the spacecraft gets more exposed to the
Earth, President Whitmore decides to address
the nation with an emergency broadcast.
Earthquakes happen all around the country,
and people from different cities start to
notice smoke and big chunks of clouds; the
spaceship is beginning to reveal itself to
the human world.
It is now directly above buildings and people's
homes.
Panic overtakes cities.
People are in complete disbelief as they see
the spaceship emerging from the clouds.
They all take a moment to get a glimpse of
that rare or rather historical sighting.
Because of this,
people start running to hide or take shelter.
The traffic is in complete chaos as cars start
to bump against each other.
Instead of fleeing their office, David gets
a closer look at the spaceship on the building's
rooftop.
He observes it and decodes a signal with hidden
satellite transmissions, which he firmly believes
is a timer counting down to a coordinated
attack by the aliens.
Meanwhile, Captain Steven Hiller, a Marine
FA-18 pilot, is at home with his family during
the event.
His girlfriend's son informs him and his girlfriend
about the aliens, but they brush him off.
Captain Hiller finally comes outside and notices
a helicopter flying over and sees the big
ship floating over the city.
David returns to the office and explains to
his coworker that the spaceship and its destroyers
position themselves in major cities to countdown
to a powerful attack.
The aliens are using one signal to synchronize
their plans, and in six hours, that signal
will completely disappear.
As his coworker panics, they watch while president
Whitmore addresses the nation.
David immediately calls his ex-wife, White
House Communications Director Constance Spano,
to warn her that she is in great danger in
the White House.
Constance tells David that he is just paranoid
and hangs up the phone.
David decides to come to Washington for Constance,
with the help of his father, Julius.
On the television, a man named Russell Casse,
a former fighter pilot and war veteran, acts
hysteric, claiming that he got abducted by
aliens ten years ago, wherein they experimented
on him.
Together with his children, Russell decides
to leave the area that they are at to get
away from danger.
When David and Julius enter Washington, protesters
scatter around the White House.
David tries to contact Constance again to
gain access to the premises.
After successfully convincing her to let them
in, David warns President Whitmore of the
impending attack.
He makes an illustration to explain the aliens'
plan on their agenda on Earth.
The countdown is almost over, and the government
should resort to immediate courses of actions.
The air force gets a closer look at the spaceship,
causing the aliens to attack with advanced
directed energy weapons.
President Whitmore immediately orders large-scale
evacuations of the targeted U.S. cities, but
it is too late.
While the President and his associates, including
David and Julius, board a helicopter to safety,
the countdown ends.
The destroyers fire a destructive beam, causing
a tremendous explosion that burns up the targeted
cities.
Citizens clamour and panic as they are stuck
in traffic and their homes.
Most of the people left behind got wiped out
in the massive eruptions and died.
The once vibrant places are now nothing but
ashes.
During the
explosion, Captain Hiller's girlfriend, Jasmine,
is stuck in traffic with her son, Dylan.
They manage to escape by running to a small
room in the tunnel.
When they got out, the world left behind is
a complete disaster; No signs of life are
present.On the third of July, the United States
conducts a counter-attack led by the Black
Knights, a squadron of the Marine Corps.
They participate in an assault on one of the
destroyers, which is in Los Angeles.
The squad fires their initial attack, but
their weapons fail to penetrate the destroyer
because force fields protect it.
As the team gets closer to it, smaller attacker
ships release their shields, which decimate
the Black Knights and other military bases.
The generals instruct the squadrons to abort
the mission, as the aliens are highly in favour
of the battle.Meanwhile, Captain Hiller manages
to evade the attackers' guns and lures an
attacker to the Grand Canyon.
As his jet is about to run out of fuel, he
deploys the parachute for his jet, and it
drapes onto the attacker, giving it zero visibility,
causing it to crash.
Captain Hiller ejects from the jet and survives.
He starts to approach the crashed attacker
angrily and punches the alien inside it, knocking
it unconscious.
Onboard Air Force One, President Whitmore
discusses with his staff ways to cope with
the situation after news that the North American
Aerospace Defense Command is gone.
Arguing about how they should have announced
an executive order to evacuate the main cities
under attack, David's father suggests that
the U.S. government did know about the attackers,
having recorded some evidence of a previous
visit to Area 51 in the Nevada desert.
The President brushes him off by saying that
Area 51 does not exist.
However, the defence secretary tells him that
it does.
Captain Hiller struggles to drag the alien's
body across the desert using his parachute.
He sees a convoy of vehicles approaching and
asks for help.
These are some of the survivors of the explosion.
He comes across Russell, who he asks for help.
The President arrives at the research facility;
the head scientist, Dr Brackish Okun, gives
him a tour.
He reveals a spacecraft that they are currently
researching.
Dr Okun tells them that the biochemistry of
the aliens is similar to that of humans as
they can breathe the same air.
They do not seem to use sound to communicate.
However, the Area 51 group believes they communicate
telepathically.
Dr Okun continues to show them three actual
bodies of the aliens
that are preserving in the lab.
Captain Hiller arrives at Area 51 with the
captured alien; staff and soldiers rush to
examine it.
As the procedure to remove the outer suit
from the alien begins, the living being inside
it reveals.
The alien regains consciousness and kills
the staff inside the operating room.
It manages to manipulate and use Dr Okun's
voice to communicate with the President outside
the glass windows.
It commands the group to release it.
President Whitmore asks a question to the
alien, asking if humans and their invaders
can live in peace.
The alien answers, "no peace".
It then uses its telepathic skills to invade
President Whitmore's mind, immobilizing him
for a brief time.
The personnel manage to shoot the alien, finally
killing it, while Dr Okun falls in a coma.
While the President was immobilized, he could
read the alien's thoughts and get a hold of
their plan, mainly to attack planets, kill
life in it, and use its resources.
He orders the bombers to deploy and strike
one of the spaceships.
The weapon explodes, but it fails to penetrate
through the force field once again.
Because of this, the President gives the order
to call back the remaining bombers.
First Lady Marilyn Whitmore, the President's
wife, is caught up and stranded in Los Angeles
with Captain Hiller's girlfriend and her son.
Captain Hiller rescues and flies them to area
51 to reunite with the rest of the team.
One of the resident doctors informs the President
that his wife has uncontrollable internal
bleeding.
He comforts her by saying that she will be
fine, but not long after that, the First Lady
dies.
On the fourth of July, David gathers everyone
and demonstrates how the attacker's shield
works.
He continues to activate a program on his
laptop that can deactivate the attacker's
shield.
The bullet effectively gets through the attacker
ship.
David presents a plan that involves using
a newly operable alien attacker to gain access
to the inside of the alien mother ship in
space to introduce a computer virus that will
disintegrate the protective force fields around
the destroyers and attackers on Earth.
Captain Hiller volunteers to pilot the attacker;
David suggests that he accompany Hiller to
upload the virus to the mother ship.
The Americans start to communicate the plan
to military bases throughout the world using
Morse code to coordinate an attack.
With a lack of human resources, the commanders
call for volunteer pilots to start their mission,
including President Whitmore and Russell,
who wants to get his revenge on the aliens.
Captain Hiller and Jasmine decide to get married
before he leaves for his mission.
Dylan acts as their ring bearer, while Constance
and David act as their witnesses.
At this moment, the ex-lovers reconnect as
they hold hands.
Before taking off, President Whitmore gives
a speech about the new Independence Day.
Julius and Constance bid David goodbye.
Hope and worry fill the air at the same time.
Captain Hiller and David prepare to launch
the attacker.
As they reach the mother ship, President Whitmore
takes charge of the American jet fighters
against the alien destroyers approaching Area
51.
In the mothership, swarms of attackers surround
them.
Thousands of aliens seem to be planning for
a complete invasion of the Earth.
They get to the heart of the mother ship and
implant the virus successfully.
The squad's supply of missiles is quickly
exhausted even though the force field got
broken.
They manage to destroy more attackers and
move forward.
A war instantly begins, and people start to
evacuate.
The underside of the spaceship opens up as
its energy weapon prepares to fire on the
base.
Russell radios that he has a final rocket
and launches it.
However, his firing mechanism jams, and he
decides to sacrifice himself by piloting his
aircraft into the alien weapon in a kamikaze
attack.
The explosion annihilates the whole spaceship,
leaving the humans in victory.
Back in the mother ship, Captain Hiller fails
to disconnect from a clamp.
They smoke cigars before they fire the nuke
and sincerely thank each other.
The weapon penetrates to a control centre
navigated by an alien.
Captain Hiller's ship is now free, and he
furiously drives it toward the portal where
they entered, narrowly escaping in the last
seconds.
The mother ship explodes instantly.
They arrive on the Earth safely, and both
smoke their "victory cigars".
The whole team celebrates and reunites while
the rest of the world exalts in joy as humans
have claimed their home again.